# I heard on the radio today that Canada needs to build 3.5 million homes in the next 5 years. Apparantly, that's in addition to what we would already have to build to keep up with normal demand. Politicians seem concerned about that, which leads me to believe we may not be in a great position to build the necessary number of homes.

When I was a kid, I loved building forts. I seized any opportunity I had to make structures in the forest, sometimes employing my friends and cousins in the process. When I was nine  my family moved to Manhattan, where few opportunities for fort-building arise. I directed that energy towards drawing sketches of structures. I  was always driven primarily by geometry; I felt that there were other geometric languages that could systematically surpass conventional buildings in such factors as cost, natural light, and environmental footprint.

In my first year at University I my amazing environmental science professor, Nicole Spiegelaar, taught me about fractals. The idea of complex structures made of self-similar shapes transfixed me. I found, in their structural similarity to patterns found in nature, something almost holy. This was by no means a unique experience. Whenever people find an abstraction that describes a trait of nature, we tend to find profundity in the abstraction.

I once read a short story by BJ Novak where Confucius, with his scribe by his side, is giving mundane directives to his household servants. Whatever Confucius says, everyone reacts as though its profound. But we should not automatically treat an expression as profound just because we've come to expect profundities from the person who said it. I feel like nature can be like Confucious in this story, especially in the realm of fractals and complexity.

At least, such is the effect that learning about fractals had on me. I began to see some version of complexity as synonymous with good, and linearity as an incarnation of bad. I still feel that way to an extent, but I recognize the naivete of that view. Some of my beliefs stem from an idiosyncratic affinity for self-similarity which has no provenance under reason.

There's nothing holy about fractals and complexity, but there are problems where I believe we should search specifically for fractal solutions in some cases: where computational limitations that constrained the precedent to linear solutions no longer apply. In such cases, there is an uncharted solution space which will often contain a better solution than the well documented ones.

The phrase 'don't reinvent the wheel' captures one of the grossest ways that people misapply evolutionary theory to their worldviews. 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it' echoes the same idea. I don't take issue with the literal expressions, but I think they promote an idea that if something exists, it must be because it's better than the alternatives in some respect. I think many people might reason that if ever someone invented an alternative to the wheel, it would have to lose to the wheel in cost efficiency, or some other important factor, or else it would already exist. This view assumes an intrinsic chronology to innovation and ignores how the scope of alternatives changes with time. The intrinsic chronology assumed assumes a natural order to things.